[Music]
so it's past midnight and you open the
fridge to have a bite but your food
looks strange gray fluffy and definitely
unappetizing what is that your peach
resembles a really bad Santa Claus it's
grown a dirty kind of fur or maybe even
alien life-forms have been implanted
into it well sort of
it was assaulted by mold and just gave
in I'm sure everyone see mold on food at
some point its spores are everywhere
around us and they fly in the air
looking for a nice warm and damp place
to live and grow when a mold spore sits
down on a wet surface it grows thin
fibers that tangle and form that gray
and fluffy fungus we're used to seeing
you'll wonder where it came from in the
first place
well mold is much much older than humans
it's a real moldy old appearing on earth
200 million years ago and there's no way
we could get rid of it altogether
but hey it's not all bad you just need
to know how to tell the good mold from
the old bold mold the dangerous kinds of
mold can have a different impact on a
human body from allergies to poisonings
it's next to impossible to know the
degree of danger of different kinds of
molds just by looking at it but almost
all the mold that appears on products in
your home not under special conditions
is bad
good mold includes the fungus cultures
penicillin and botrytis cinerea
which had flavor to cheese's salami and
some beverages and other products the
growth of good mold is kept under
control by certain technology these
kinds of mold are good for your health
they help the intestines work and lower
the risk of cardiovascular issues
they're also a natural preservative for
products a lot of products become better
because of mold the mold fungi help them
to grow ripe and give zest to their
flavor cheese can have three kinds of
mold blue white and red how patriotic
blue mold is put inside the cheese to
ripen and white and red can grow on the
product surface if special conditions
are created these moldy cheese's are
rich in proteins phosphor and amino
acids and the calcium in them is
digested easier thanks to the mold but
they're not good for children pregnant
women or people having intestinal issues
mold that appears suddenly on the
surface of hard cheeses can be dangerous
apart from that if the storage
conditions aren't maintained dangerous
fungi can even appear on products with
good more soy sauce the fermentation
process of soy beans which is necessary
to make soy sauce happens due to the
fungi Aspergillus fumigatus in ancient
times Europeans who attempted to prepare
it fail because they didn't use fungi in
the recipe the sauce is rich in amino
acids and minerals but can cause an
allergy and children under 5 and
pregnant women
salamé the mold covering salami has
several functions it gives a unique
flavor to the meat prevents it from
drying out too quickly serves as a
natural preservative and is a sign that
the ripening process is finished citric
acid although citric acid can be made
using lemon or pineapple juice
it can also be produced with the help of
black mold or Aspergillus Niger which is
fed with glucose and sucrose and creates
acid this is actually a cheaper way to
make citric acid okay now we know which
mold is good but what will happen if you
eat food with mold on it that grew in
your own fridge when found inside a
human body mycotoxins the toxins that
come from fungi caused different
diseases both chronic and those that
develop quickly and are life-threatening
the first cases of mass infection caused
by mycotoxins were registered in Great
Britain in 1960 when more than 100,000
turkeys and other bird species got ill
suddenly that same year in America an
epidemic struck on trout farms
scientists didn't know about the toxic
effect of mold fungi at
but the research showed that the illness
had been caused by infected products
used as food for birds and fish to
prevent this from happening again
products that are sold in supermarkets
are checked for mold on a regular basis
but you should remember that a damaged
package improper storage and keeping
food after the expiration date can allow
mold to form mycotoxins can damage human
health in two ways when a big dose gets
inside the body all at once or when a
large amount of it has gathered in the
body over time the first case would be
considered acute poisoning which damages
the liver poison suppresses the creation
of protein and toxic matter damages
liver cells and replaces them with fat
cells
this type of poisoning happens very
quickly and can lead to irreversible
consequences in as little as two days
children elderly people and people with
a low immunity are at the highest risk
it would be accompanied by symptoms like
headache ache in the liver area leg
spasms shakiness weakness and loss of
appetite when toxics accumulate over
time they cause diseases gradually the
liver would be again the main target of
accumulated toxins it wouldn't be a good
idea to test the toxic effect of mold on
yourself you risk having an allergy or
seriously poisoning yourself
but are there products that can be saved
and which ones do you need to throw away
immediately you need to throw away soft
wet products in which mold grows quickly
even if there's a small clean spot on
the moldy product mycelium which can't
be seen has damaged it to the root so
don't try to save processed meat
sausages bacon ham any cooked meat dairy
products yogurt cottage cheese sour
cream sliced or grated cheese soft
cheese with mole usually alien mold
looks different from the good one if
you've noticed that a new kind of mold
has appeared on the product it's
dangerous
cook dishes make pudding salads pasta
soft fruit vegetables berries Jam bread
as for hard products they can still be
saved
since mold doesn't grow that quickly
inside them you can cut off the damaged
part and eat the rest of it hard cheeses
cut the mold off Parmesan or cheddar
with half an inch of undamaged cheese
you need to wash the knife so you don't
spread mycelium to the rest of the
product then cover it with a new piece
of plastic or paper hard vegetables and
fruit it's difficult for mold to eat up
carrots or cabbage that's why if you cut
off the upper layer you can still use
these vegetables raw cured meat mold
that appears on the surface of these
products isn't dangerous for the inner
layers of meat but you still shouldn't
eat it apart from that there are
products were the most toxic kinds of
mold appear don't eat apples apple juice
or nuts especially peanuts damaged by
mold the inner structure of peanuts
isn't that hard because of vegetable
fats not every product sold in
supermarkets is checked for mold only
some samples that means you need to pay
attention to the way products look
before buying them don't buy it
if you notice any of these signs
condensation inside the package which
hints at improper storage the product is
close to or past its sell-by date the
product doesn't look fresh nuts should
be golden orb around without any stains
or strange odors buy fruit and
vegetables fresh without soft edges or
rotten spots but this isn't a 100%
guarantee mold can be hidden inside the
core of an apple or beneath the shell of
an apricot stone cut the fruits into
pieces to make sure that they don't have
mold inside keep nuts and dried fruit in
a dry dark and cool place high
temperatures and moisture make it easier
for mold to grow if it does appear don't
try to brush it off and mold is
resistant to high temperatures so
there's no use in frying or heating the
nuts the toxins will stay there
moreover try not to buy food for future
use there will be fewer chances that it
gets oiled if you don't keep it in the
fridge for weeks
hey how about you are you sick of those
puns do you throw away food when you see
mold on it let me know down in the
comments hey if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
run and check for mold just yet we have
over 2000 cool videos for you to check
out just click on this left or right
video and enjoy and stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]